.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt

.. _deprecation-99050-1668086497:

=========================================================================
Deprecation: #99050 - TypoScript _CSS_PAGE_STYLE and config.removePageCss
=========================================================================

See :issue:`99050`

Description
===========

Integrators can use the TypoScript setup plugin-level property :typoscript:`_CSS_PAGE_STYLE`
to define custom CSS that is loaded in the frontend. To suppress this output, the additional
property :typoscript:`config.removePageCss` (or :typoscript:`somePageObject.config.removePageCss`)
can be used.

Handling of both plugin-level :typoscript:`_CSS_PAGE_STYLE` and config object level
property :typoscript:`removePageCss` have been marked as deprecated in TYPO3 v12 and
will be removed in v13.


Impact
======

Using a TypoScript property like :typoscript:`plugin.tx_myPlugin._CSS_PAGE_STYLE` or
the config property :typoscript:`removePageCss` in :typoscript:`config.removePageCss`
or in a page-specific usage like :typoscript:`myPage.config.removePageCss` triggers
a deprecation level log entry.


Affected installations
======================

TypoScript property :typoscript:`_CSS_PAGE_STYLE` is a relatively rarely used
property in TYPO3 instances. Instances can use the :guilabel:`Template` backend
module to scan for usages.


Migration
=========

Integrators should avoid using :typoscript:`_CSS_PAGE_STYLE` on plugin level. They
should switch adding CSS on a :typoscript:`PAGE` level. A direct replacement looks
like this:

Before:

..  code-block:: typoscript

    plugin.tx_myPlugin._CSS_PAGE_STYLE (
        .myClass { text-align: center }
    )

After:

..  code-block:: typoscript

    page.cssInline {
        10 = TEXT
        10.value (
            .myClass { text-align: center }
        )
    }

As a general note, the :typoscript:`PAGE` property :typoscript:`includeCSS` is often
better suited to include CSS as files, especially when frontend CSS is generated by
some processor like SCSS.


.. index:: TypoScript, NotScanned, ext:frontend
